feat: publish greenit-audit article (#1)
charlesgery/kumo-articles: blog-posts/greenit-audit/greenit-audit.md

---
published: true
title: 'You thought serverless was green? Here is how to really make it sustainable! 🌱'
cover_image: 'http://www.nasa.gov/sites/default/files/thumbnails/image/as17-148-22727_lrg.jpg'
description: 'Description of the article'
tags: greenit, aws, sustainability, serverless
series:
canonical_url:
---

**Serverless is an amazing way to do cloud computing.** It removes the hassle of managing the infrastructure of your app and lets you focus on what really matters: delivering value.

> Moreover, in regular cloud computing, **lots of resources are idle**. Servers are often running without any task to do. People don’t optimize the capacity of their servers relative to the workload they really have. With serverless, cloud providers have a way to **share resources between clients and optimize their use**. Your serverless app will scale easily and will only be running when your users need it. For instance, AWS will launch Lambda functions instances and run their code only when required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also has a great side benefit: it avoids wasted idle CPUs. On more traditional infrastructures, tech teams don’t always optimize the reserved capacity of their servers relative to the actual workload they have to deal with. With serverless, cloud providers have a way to **share resources between clients and optimize their use**. Your serverless app will scale easily and will only be running when your users need it. For instance, AWS will launch Lambda functions instances and run their code only when required.
```

![Lambda lifecycle](./assets/lambda-lifecycle.png 'Lambda lifecycle')

Because of that, **serverless is often considered greener than traditional applications in the cloud**.

## Is your serverless application perfectly sustainable?

> Going serverless is considered a sustainable solution to develop applications. **This is not a reason to be complacent**. You can certainly take action to improve the sustainability of your application.

Reviewer: You can however implement by mistake anti-patterns that will impact negatively your actual resource consumptions.

> \*“Never settle for average.” ― **Steve Jobs\***

There are **many sustainability mistakes you can make** when developing a serverless application. For instance, you can:

- Forget using lifecycles for your data stored in S3,
- Have servers far from your end-users,

> - Use a database service that is not suited to your needs...

Reviewer 2: Ça manque de why, pourquoi ce sont des mauvaises pratiques ?
En deux trois mots pour chaque point on peut expliciter

> - Use a database service that is not suited to your needs...

Reviewer: - Implement reserved concurrency where you don't really need to

> In his [article](https://dev.to/kumo/monitor-the-co2-emissions-of-your-aws-application-with-cloud-carbon-footprint-2hjm), our colleague Thomas provides you with a **simple way to monitor your carbon emissions** using [Cloud Carbon Footprint](https://www.cloudcarbonfootprint.org/). Monitoring your emissions is a first step to avoid bad sustainability patterns. This way you can see and control the evolution of your emissions as your application evolves and be aware if one of your features pollutes abnormally.

Reviewer 2: Ici vous dites "our colleague Thomas", alors que vous ne vous êtes pas présenté, ni kumo.
Ça peut valoir le coup, par exemple en mettant une phrase d'intro "Here at Kumo, ..."

![Cloud carbon footprint dashboard](./assets/ccf-dashboard.png 'Cloud carbon footprint dashboard')

## You can make your serverless application even greener!

Monitoring your emissions is great, but we wanted to take the next step and **find actionable ways to reduce our emissions.** We read the [AWS Sustainability Pillar](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/sustainability-pillar/sustainability-pillar.html) for you and **listed concrete actions** to implement the good practices it describes.

> **We developed a sustainability audit for your AWS serverless applications that lists these actions**. Within **10 minutes**, you will be able to fill in the whole form and **receive a score out of 100**. After filling out the audit, you will be **provided with a list of recommendations** that will help you make your application more sustainable.

Reviewer 2: Ici on passe de "we listed ..." à "we developed an audit ...".
Mettre "we listed ..." à "the result is an audit" serait mieux

Reviewer 2: On peut mettre une explication sur le score.
Genre "... where a score of 100 means that you have the greenest app ever :palm_tree: " ou équivalent

> **We developed a sustainability audit for your AWS serverless applications that lists these actions**. Within **10 minutes**, you will be able to fill in the whole form and **receive a score out of 100**. After filling out the audit, you will be **provided with a list of recommendations** that will help you make your application more sustainable.

Reviewer: pour vous donner de la crédibilité, précisez que cette checklist a été développée en appliquant les recommendation de l'AWS Sustainability Pillar à des services concrêts

After taking the recommended actions, you should see your application emissions lower in your carbon monitoring dashboard! 🥳

There’s more, by performing this audit and taking the associated actions, you will **make your application much more sober**, which can also **improve the performance and monthly cost** of your application.

> The instructions and the audit are available **[here](https://www.notion.so/Sustainability-Audit-EN-Version-a36847289fd64339a60e40bc5aa63092)**.

Reviewer 2: La page est privée, il faut avoir accès à M33
